SPYING OUTPOSTS IN ASIA; TAPPING
INTO GOOGLE AND YAHOO'S INTERNAL
NETWORKS.
NEW REPORTS ON THE BREADTH OF
N.S.A. SURVEILLANCE STOKE
OUTRAGE AT HOME AND ABROAD.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY, IRAQ'S
PRIME MINISTER VISITS WASHINGTON
ASKING FOR HELP TO STEM A RECENT
SPATE OF BLOODSHED.
>> Ifill: AND WHILE ABRAHAM
LINCOLN IS WIDELY REVERED AS THE
MAN WHO KEPT THE UNION TOGETHER,
A NEW BOOK LOOKS AT HIS LITTLE
KNOWN LEGACY AS A GROUND-
BREAKING FOREIGN-POLICY
PRESIDENT.
>> LINCOLN HAD TO DEAL WITH A
SERIES OF CRISES OVER THE COURSE
OF HIS PRESIDENCY FROM FRANCE,
FROM BRITAIN, FROM SPAIN, EVEN
RUSSIAN SHIPS SHOWED UP OFF THE
ATLANTIC COAST.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: ISRAEL HAS LAUNCHED
NEW AIR STRIKES INTO SYRIA.
U.S. SECURITY OFFICIALS SAY THE
ATTACK CAME AFTER NIGHTFALL,
IN THE SYRIAN PORT CITY OF
LATAKIA AFTER NIGHTFALL.
THE TARGET WAS SAID TO BE
RUSSIAN-MADE, SURFACE-TO-AIR
MISSILES.
IT'S AT LEAST THE THIRD TIME
THIS YEAR THAT ISRAEL HAS
CARRIED OUT AIR STRIKES INSIDE
SYRIA.
SYRIA HAS MET A DEADLINE TO
DESTROY ALL OF ITS DECLARED
CHEMICAL WEAPONS MAKING
EQUIPMENT.
THE ORGANIZATION FOR THE
PROHIBITION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS
VERIFIED IT TODAY.
IT'S PART OF SYRIA'S AGREEMENT
WITH THE U.N. TO DESTROY ALL
CHEMICAL FACILITIES AND WEAPONS
BY MID-2014.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON SYRIA, LATER
IN THE PROGRAM.
CHINA DEMANDED AN EXPLANATION
TODAY AFTER REPORTS THAT
U.S. AND AUSTRALIAN EMBASSIES
ARE BEING USED AS HUBS FOR
ELECTRONIC SPYING.
AN ACCOUNT IN THE "SYDNEY
MORNING HERALD" SAID THE
INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION IS
HAPPENING ACROSS SOUTHEAST ASIA.
IN BEIJING, A FOREIGN MINISTRY
SPOKESWOMAN DELIVERED HER
GOVERNMENT'S REACTION.
WE DEMAND THEY ABIDE BY
INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION AND
DON'T ENGAGE IN ACTIONS THAT
HURT CHINA'S NATIONAL SECURITY
AND INTEREST.
>> Woodruff: SEPARATELY, THE
UNION REPRESENTING GERMAN
JOURNALISTS ADVISED ITS MEMBERS
TO STOP USING GOOGLE AND YAHOO,
AFTER REPORTS THAT U.S. AND
BRITISH INTELLIGENCE HAVE TAPPED
THEIR DATA CENTERS.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THE ONGOING
STORM OVER SURVEILLANCE, RIGHT
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
KENYA STRUCK BACK TODAY AT
MILITANTS IN SOMALIA WHO
ATTACKED A SHOPPING MALL IN
NAIROBI LAST MONTH.
THE KENYAN MILITARY SAID
WARPLANES BOMBED AND DESTROYED A
TRAINING CAMP USED BY THE
ISLAMIST GROUP AL-SHABAAB.
THERE WAS NO WORD ON CASUALTIES.
THE MALL ATTACK LEFT AT LEAST 67
PEOPLE DEAD.
IN THE NORTH AFRICAN NATION OF
NIGER, RESCUERS HAVE RECOVERED
THE BODIES OF NEARLY 100
MIGRANTS, WEEKS AFTER THEY DIED
OF THIRST IN THE SAHARA DESERT.
MOST WERE WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
THEY WERE FOUND NOT FAR FROM THE
ALGERIAN BORDER.
MANY OF THE BODIES WERE BADLY
DECOMPOSED, AND OTHERS HAD BEEN
EATEN BY JACKALS.
NORTHERN NIGER LIES ON A MAJOR
CORRIDOR FOR ILLEGAL MIGRATION.
A FEDERAL APPEALS COURT TODAY
UPHELD NEW YORK CITY'S
"STOP-AND-FRISK" POLICY BY
BLOCKING A LOWER COURT RULING
AGAINST IT.
IN AUGUST, FEDERAL DISTRICT
JUDGE SHIRA SCHEINDLIN FOUND
POLICE HAVE ILLEGALLY TARGETED
MINORITIES, AND ORDERED MAJOR
CHANGES.
THE APPEALS COURT STAYED THAT
RULING, AND REMOVED THE JUDGE
FROM THE CASE FOR GIVING PRESS
INTERVIEWS THAT ANSWERED HER
CRITICS.
AIRLINE PASSENGERS WILL SOON BE
ALLOWED TO USE TABLET COMPUTERS,
E-READERS AND OTHER ELECTRONIC
DEVICES THROUGHOUT THEIR
FLIGHTS.
TALKING ON CELL PHONES WILL
STILL BE PROHIBITED.
THE FEDERAL AVIATION
ADMINISTRATION ISSUED THE NEW
GUIDELINES TODAY.
ADMINISTRATOR MICHAEL HUERTA
SAID MOST AIRLINERS CAN HANDLE
THE ELECTRONIC INTERFERENCE.
MFRJTS IT'S SAFE TO READ
DOWNLOADED MATERIALS LIKE
E-BOOKS AND CALENDARS AND ALSO
TO PLAY GAMES.
BUT THE COMMITTEE FOUND THAT IN
SOME INSTANCES OF LOW VISIBILITY
ABOUT 1% OF ALL FLIGHTS, SOME
LANDING SYSTEMS MAY NOT BE
PROVEN TO TOLERATE THE
INTERFERENCE.
IN THOSE CASES PASSENGERS MAY BE
ASKED TO TURN OFF DEVICES.
THE F.A.A. HAS LIMITED IN-FLIGHT
USE OF ELECTRONIC DEVICES SINCE
1966.
THE NEW RULES WON'T BE
IMPLEMENTED UNTIL AIRLINES SHOW
HOW THEY PLAN TO COMPLY.
FEDERAL AUTHORITIES HAVE
DISCOVERED ANOTHER SOPHISTICATED
DRUG-SMUGGLING TUNNEL BETWEEN
TIJUANA, MEXICO AND SAN DIEGO.
OFFICIALS SAID TODAY THE SECRET
PASSAGE WAS RECENTLY COMPLETED.
IT WAS EQUIPPED WITH
ELECTRICITY, VENTILATION AND
EVEN A RAIL SYSTEM.
AGENTS SEIZED EIGHT TONS OF
MARIJUANA AND 325 POUNDS OF
COCAINE AND ARRESTED THREE
PEOPLE.
SENATE REPUBLICANS TODAY BLOCKED
ACTION ON TWO KEY PRESIDENTIAL
NOMINEES.
DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSMAN MELVIN
WATT OF NORTH CAROLINA IS THE
PRESIDENT'S CHOICE TO RUN THE
FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY,
OVERSEEING MORTGAGE GIANTS
FANNIE MAE AND FREDDIE MAC.
PATRICIA MILLETT HAS BEEN
NOMINATED FOR THE FEDERAL
APPEALS COURT IN WASHINGTON D.C.
THE ACTION LEFT BOTH NOMINEES
SHORT OF THE 60 VOTES NEEDED FOR
CONFIRMATION.
WALL STREET HAD A DOWN DAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 73 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,545.
THE NASDAQ FELL NEARLY 11 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 3,919.
AND IN BOSTON, RED SOX FANS ARE
POINTING TOWARD A SATURDAY
PARADE TO CELEBRATE THEIR LATEST
WORLD SERIES WIN.
THE SOX BEAT THE ST. LOUIS
CARDINALS LAST NIGHT, TO TAKE
THE TITLE IN SIX GAMES.
JEFFREY BROWN WILL HAVE MORE ON
THE RED SOX'S VICTORY LATER IN
THE PROGRAM.
ALSO AHEAD ON THE "NEWSHOUR":
OUTRAGE OVER THE N.S.A. TAPPING
INTO SERVERS FOR GOOGLE AND
YAHOO, PLUS SPYING ON ASIA;
DISMANTLING SYRIA'S CHEMICAL
WEAPONS PROGRAM; THE RECENT WAVE
OF VIOLENCE IN IRAQ; SENATOR
SUSAN COLLINS ON THE FUTURE OF
BLICAN PARTY AND ABRAHAM
LINCOLN'S FOREIGN POLICY.
>> Ifill: NEWLY PUBLISHED
INFORMATION LEAKED BY FORMER NSA
CONTRACTOR EDWARD SNOWDEN IS
REINFORCING THE NOTION THAT U.S.
SPYING SPREADS WIDE AND GOES
DEEP.
THE LATEST BOMBSHELL, PARTLY
DE
ADMINISTRATION, APPEARS IN THE
"WASHINGTON POST."
IT SAYS U.S. INTELLIGENCE
AGENCIES HAVE GAINED ACCESS TO
HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF GOOGLE
AND YAHOO USER ACCOUNTS BY
SECRETLY TAPPING INTO COMPANY
DATA CENTERS.
LATE TODAY, SIX TOP TECH
COMPANIES-- YAHOO, GOOGLE, AOL,
APPLE, MICROSOFT AND FACEBOOK--
SENT A LETTER TO CONGRESS,
CALLING FOR ENHANCED PRIVACY
PROTECTIONS.
BARTON GELLMAN BROKE THE STORY
FOR "THE WASHINGTON POST."
WELCOME, BART GELLMAN, HOW ARE
YOU?
WELCOME TO THE NEWSHOUR.
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
WHAT YOU'RE REPORTING THAT
HAPPENED AND WHAT THE WHITE
HOUSE AND THE ADMINISTRATION IS
PUSHING BACK AT AND SAYING
DIDN'T HAPPEN?
>> WELL, THERE HAVE BEEN SEVERAL
VERSIONS OF IT BUT SO FAR THEY
HAVE NOT DENIED ANY OF THE FACTS
STATED IN THE STORY.
YESTERDAY GENERAL ALEXANDER, THE
HEAD OF THE N.S.A., DENIED THAT
THE N.S.A. IS TAPPING INTO THE
SERVERS OR DATABASES OR DATA
CENTERS OF GOOGLE AND YAHOO!
THAT'S NOT WHAT WE SAID.
WHAT WE SAID IS THEY'RE TAPPING
INTO THE THAT'S BETWEEN DATA
CENTER HERE AND THE DATA CENTER
THERE.
SO THEY'RE CAPTURING THE DATA AS
IT MOVES ACROSS THE NET, NOT IN
STORAGE WHERE IT'S AT REST.
>> HOW DOES THIS WORK?
THIS WORKS IN THE CLOUD, I
SUPPOSE.
AND IT ALSO WORKS IN
COLLABORATION WITH THE BRITISH
GOVERNMENT.
IS THAT IT?
>> RIGHT.
THEY'RE USING A -- WHAT THEY
CALL A SIGNAL INTELLIGENCE
ADDRESS OR ACTIVITY DESIGNATEOR
WHICH JUST MEANS A PLACE AND
PROGRAM FROM WHICH THEY'RE
TAPPING THE DATA.
WE DON'T KNOW WHERE IT IS.
WE DON'T KNOW EXACTLY HOW IT IS.
THE EVIDENCE WE HAVE-- BESIDES
THEM SAYING SO IN THEIR OWN
DOCUMENTS THAT THEY'RE DOING IT
SDS THAT THEY ARE SEEING THINGS
THAT DON'T EXIST ON THE PUBLIC
INTERNET.
THAT EXIST ONLY IN THE CLOUD
THAT BELONG TO GOOGLE OR BELONG
TO YAHOO!
WHAT THAT MEANS IS THEIR
INTERNAL SYSTEMS DON'T EVER
TOUCH THE PUBLIC INTERNET.
THEY HAVE PRIVATE FIBER OPTIC
CABLE, PRIVATE SYSTEMS THAT
TRANSMIT THE DATA BACK THIS AND
FORTH.
THEY'RE SEEING THINGS IN SPECIAL
FORMATS THAT ARE USED BY GOOGLE
AND YAHOO! TO MOVE THEIR OWN DAY
THEY THAT THEY COULDN'T SEE
ANYWHERE ELSE.
>> Ifill: NOW, WE HEARD EARLIER
IN THE SERIES OF REVELATIONS
ABOUT N.S.A. SURVEILLANCE THAT,
IN FACT, THEY HAD TO GO TO A
COURT AND THE COURT HAD TO GIVE
PERMISSION FOR THEM TO SEEK
INFORMATION FROM SOME OF THESE
TECH COMPANIES, SOME OF WHOM
PROVIDED THE INFORMATION, SOME
OF WHOM DIDN'T.
HOW IS THIS DIFFERENT?
>> WELL, IT'S DIFFERENT BECAUSE
IF YOU WANT TO TAP INTO
COMMUNICATIONS FROM A PLACE
INSIDE THE UNITED STATES ON U.S.
TERRITORY YOU HAVE TO HAVE --
YOU HAVE TO DO IT UNDER EITHER
FISA AUTHORITY OR WHAT'S CALLED
TRANSIT AUTHORITY, BUT IN
GENERAL YOU CAN'T JUST BOTH
COLLECT INFORMATION THAT WOULD
RESIDE IN A DATABASE OF YAHOO!
OR GOOGLE.
IF YOU'RE DOING IT FROM OVERSEAS
DIFFERENT RULES APPLY.
YOU'RE NOT RELYING ON STATUTORY
AUTHORITY.
YOU'RE NOT RELYING ON THE FISA
COURT.
INSTEAD YOU'RE RELYING SOLELY ON
PRESIDENTIAL AUTHORITY UNDER
EXECUTIVE ORDER 12333 AND THERE
THE RULES ARE A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT AND WHEN YOU'RE
TAPPING INTO A FOREIGN ACCESS
POINT YOU'RE ALLOWED TO PRESUME
LEGALLY DPS YOU'RE THE N.S.A.S
THAT THE PEOPLE USING THAT
FOREIGN ACCESS POINT ARE
FOREIGNERS.
IS.
>> Ifill: SO IN THIS CASE WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING IS WHAT THEY DID
IS NOT ILLEGAL BECAUSE IT
INVOLVED INTERNATIONAL NETWORKS?
>> WELL, IT'S A ROUGH ANALOGY
BUT IF YOUR -- YOUR ACCOUNTANT
WOULD SAY YOU'RE ALLOWED TO
AVOID TAXES NOT EVADE THEM.
SO THEY'RE TAKING FULL ADVANTAGE
OF THE RULES AS THEY INTERPRET
THEM.
THERE ARE SOME OUTSIDE
SURVEILLANCE LAWYERS WHO SAY IT
MAY RAISE INTERESTING QUESTIONS
ABOUT LAWFULNESS BUT ON ITS FACE
I DON'T SEE ANY EVIDENCE THEY'RE
FLOUTING THE LAW.
THEY'RE USING IT IN WAYS THE
COMPANIES AND PUBLIC DID NOT
EXPECT.
>> Ifill: THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT IT
IS.
SO TELL ME WHAT KIND OF
INFORMATION THEY'RE GETTING.
ARE THEY ACTUALLY GETTING
INFORMATION FROM PEOPLE'S
ACCOUNTS?
DO WE EVEN KNOW?
OR IS THIS JUST THE FACT THAT
THEY HAVE THE ABILITY TO GET
THIS INFORMATION?
>> WELL, WE DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH
THEY'RE KEEPING.
BUT THE WAY THE LAW WORKS, AS
SOON AS YOU TOUCH IT, AS SOON AS
YOU DIVERT THE INFORMATION FROM
WHERE IT'S BEEN GOING INTO A POT
THAT YOU CONTROL, THAT'S CALLED
ACQUISITION.
THAT'S COLLECTION AND THAT IS
RESTRICTED BY LAW.
NOW, WE'VE CHANGED THE LAW AFTER
9/11 TO SAY JUST THAT IT'S OKAY
TO -- IT'S OKAY TO COLLECT
INFORMATION FROM U.S. FACILITIES
BECAUSE LOTS OF FOREIGN TRAFFIC
PASSES THROUGH THERE.
NOW, WE HAVE NOT ADDED
RESTRICTIONS BECAUSE A LOT OF
AMERICANS' TRAFFIC PASSES
THROUGH FOREIGN SWITCHES.
WE NOW HAVE THIS GLOBAL INTERNET
AND SO YOU CAN BE SITTING IN
BOISE AND LOG ON TO YOUR YAHOO!
ACCOUNT OR YOUR GOOGLE ACCOUNT
AND YOU'RE ACTUALLY TALKING TO A
SERVER IN FINLAND WHICH IS
GETTING INFORMATION FROM A DATA
CENTER IN SOUTH AMERICA.
SO THE INFORMATION IN YOUR
ACCOUNT IS BEING SYNCHRONIZED
ACROSS THE DATA CENTERS SO AS IT
MOVES ACROSS YOU CAN HAVE FIVE
YEARS OF E-MAILS PACKAGED UP
MOVING ACROSS THE WIRE AND THIS
PROGRAM WILL INTERCEPT IT.
WHETHER THEY KEEP IT AND UNDER
WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES, ALL THOSE
RULES ARE CLASSIFIED.
>> Ifill: SO WE DON'T KNOW
WHETHER THEY'RE HOLDING ON TO
THIS INFORMATION, JUST THAT THEY
HAVE THE ABILITY TO COLLECT IT.
HOW ARE THE COMPANIES RESPONDING
TO THIS?
WE SAW THAT THEY'RE WRITING
LETTERS TO CONGRESS ASKING FOR
MORE TRANSPARENCY.
BUT HOW DO THEY PROTECT US?
>> WELL, GOOGLE AND YAHOO! ARE
RESPONDING IN SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT
WAYS.
GOOGLE EXECUTIVES ARE CLEARLY
OPENLY VERY ANGRY ABOUT THIS.
AND ENGINEERS I'VE TALKED TO WHO
ARE CLOSELY FAMILIAR WITH
GOOGLE'S INTERNALS WERE, AS I
SAID?
THE STORY, QUITE PROFANE THEY
EXPLODED IN THESE VERY ANGRY
REACTIONS WHEN THEY REALIZED
WHAT WAS BEING DONE TO THEM AND
GOOGLE IS ACCELERATING THE
EFFORTS TO ENCRYPT THE TRAFFIC
THAT FLOWS BETWEEN THOSE DATA
CENTERS.
YAHOO! SIMPLY GAVE A STATEMENT
THAT IT WAS NOT AWARE OF AND DID
NOT COOPERATE IN ANY OF THIS AND
IT HAS NOT HAD EFFORTS TO
PREVENT IT.
>> Ifill: BART GELMAN WRITING
FOR THE "WASHINGTON POST."
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: WE HAD PLANNED TO
BRING YOU AN INTERVIEW WITH THE
DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE, JAMES CLAPPER
TONIGHT.
IT HAS BEEN DELAYED WHILE HE
HOLDS MEETINGS WITH LAWMAKERS ON
CAPITOL HILL.
WE WILL RESCHEDULE.
>> Woodruff: ANOTHER MILESTONE
CAL WEAPONS TODAY IN DISARMING
STOCKPILE.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THAT STORY.
>> THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT HAS
COMPLETED WHAT WE CALLED
FUNCTIONAL DESTRUCTION OF ITS
ENTIRE CHEMICAL WEAPONS MAKING
APPARATUS.
>> Reporter: THE CONFIRMATION
CAME FROM THE ORGANIZATION FOR
THE PROHIBITION OF CHEMICAL
WEAPONS, WHICH WON THE NOBEL
PEACE PRIZE THIS MONTH.
THE GROUP HAS BEEN WORKING,
UNDER A U.N. MANDATE, TO ENSURE
THAT SYRIA'S CHEMICAL WEAPONS-
MAKING FACILITIES WERE PUT OUT
OF COMMISSION, BY NOVEMBER
FIRST.
>> SO IT NO LONGER HAS THE
CAPACITY TO MANUFACTURE NEW
CHEMICAL WEAPONS AGENTS AND HAS
NOT THE CAPACITY TO UTILIZE THE
PRECURSOR BINARY CHEMICALS FOR
SARIN GAS AND TO LOAD THOSE INTO
MUNITIONS.
>> Reporter: THE ORGANIZATION
INSPECTED 21 DECLARED PRODUCTION
SITES.
FIGHTING BETWEEN REBELS AND THE
SYRIAN ARMY MADE TWO OTHER SITES
TOO RISKY TO REACH.
TODAY, THE SYRIAN OBSERVATORY
FOR HUMAN RIGHTS, AN OPPOSITION
GROUP BASED IN BRITAIN,
ESTIMATED THE FIGHTING HAS
KILLED MORE THAN 120,000 PEOPLE
IN THE LAST TWO AND A HALF
YEARS.
ADDED TO THAT, THE U.N.'S
ESTIMATE OF MORE THAN FOUR
MILLION DISPLACED PEOPLE INSIDE
SYRIA AND TWO MILLION MORE IN
NEIGHBORING STATES.
PLUS, REPORTS OF GROWING FOOD
SHORTAGES AND DISEASE OUTBREAKS,
INCLUDING POLIO.
>> I UNDERSTAND THAT IN SYRIA
THERE ARE NOT GREAT OPTIONS.
>> Reporter: IN WASHINGTON,
SENATORS FROM BOTH PARTIES
PRESSED THE U.S. AMBASSADOR TO
SYRIA, ROBERT FORD, TO DEFEND
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S HANDLING OF
THE SITUATION.
NEW JERSEY DEMOCRAT ROBERT
MENENDEZ CHAIRS THE FOREIGN
RELATIONS COMMITTEE.
>> THIS IS A PRETTY BAD HAND
THAT THE REGION AS WELL AS ALL
OF US WHO CARE ABOUT IT HAVE
BEEN DEALT.
BUT IN THE MIDST OF THAT, THERE
HAS TO BE SOME EORT FFOF A
STRATEGY TO GET US TO WHERE WE
NEED TO BE.
>> SENATOR, IT'S A TWO-TRACK
STRATEGY.
IT'S A TWO-TRACK STRATEGY:
FIRST, KEEP PUSHING TO GET THE
TWO SIDES TO THE TABLE.
BUT WE UNDERSTAND THAT THE ASSAD
REGIME IS A VERY TOUGH, BRUTAL
REGIME.
SO, PUSH FOR NEGOTIATIONS, BUT
HELP THE MODERATE OPPOSITION BE
IN A POSITION ITSELF TO PRESS
FOR CONCESSIONS FROM THE REGIME
WHEN IT GETS THERE.
>> Reporter: BUT REPUBLICANS,
INCLUDING BOB CORKER OF
TENNESSEE, INSISTED THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS FAILED TO
DELIVER ON ITS PROMISES
TO THE REBELS.
>> DO YOU FEEL GOOD ABOUT WHAT
>> SENATOR, THERE ISN'T A PERSON
ON MY TEAM AT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT WHO DOESN'T FEEL
FRUSTRATED, FRUSTRATED BY THE
SYRIAN PROBLEM IN GENERAL.
BUT I HAVE TO SAY WE DO PROVIDE
SUPPORT TO HELP THEM AGAINST THE
REGIME.
WE PROVIDE A LOT OF SUPPORT.
>> I THINK OUR HELP TO THE
OPPOSITION HAS BEEN AN
EMBARRASSMENT.
AND I FIND IT APPALLING THAT YOU
WOULD SIT HERE AND ACT AS IF
WE'RE DOING THE THINGS WE SAID
WE WOULD DO THREE MONTHS AGO,
SIX MONTHS AGO, NINE MONTHS AGO.
>> Reporter: FELLOW REPUBLICAN
JOHN McCAIN OF ARIZONA SAID
SYRIAN PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-ASSAD
HAS USED THAT TIME TO GAIN
GROUND.
>> THE FACT IS THAT HE WAS ABOUT
TO BE TOPPLED A YEAR AGO, OR
OVER A YEAR AGO.
THEN HEZBOLLAH CAME IN.
THEN THE RUSSIANS STEPPED UP
THEIR EFFORT.
THEN THE IRANIAN REVOLUTIONARY
GUARD INTERVENED IN WHAT YOU
CALL A, QUOTE, "CIVIL WAR," AND
HE TURNED THE TIDE.
AND HE CONTINUES TO MAINTAIN HIS
POSITION OF POWER AND
SLAUGHTERING INNOCENT SYRIAN
CIVILIANS.
AND YOU ARE RELYING ON A GENEVA
CONFERENCE, RIGHT?
>> SENATOR, FIRST OF ALL, I
WOULD AGREE WITH MUCH OF WHAT
YOU SAID THERE IN TERMS OF THE
BALANCE SHIFTING AGAINST HIM AND
THE INTERVENTION OF HEZBOLLAH
HELPING THE REGIME ENORMOUSLY.
BUT OUR GOAL ULTIMATELY IS TO
GET SYRIAN COMMUNITIES THAT ARE
AFRAID OF EACH OTHER TO SOMEHOW
COME TO A POLITICAL AGREEMENT.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, IN
DAMASCUS, U.N. ENVOY LAHKDAR
BRAHIMI, HELD A FOURTH DAY OF
TALKS TODAY, HOPING TO BRING
BOTH SIDES TO THE PLANNED GENEVA
PEACE CONFERENCE, NEXT MONTH.
>> Woodruff: TO HELP US
UNDERSTAND THIS LATEST STEP
TOWARD DISARMAMENT, WE TURN ONCE
AGAIN TO CHARLES DUELFER, A
FORMER U.N. WEAPONS INSPECTOR IN
IRAQ WHO ALSO LED THE C.I.A.'S
IRAQ SURVEY GROUP.
WELCOME BACK TO THE PROGRAM.
SO THE FACT THAT WE ARE TOLD
THAT THE SYRIANS HAVE NOW
DISMANTLED THEIR CHEMICAL
WEAPONS MAKING APPARATUS, WHAT
DOES THAT REALLY MEAN?
>> WELL, IT'S A SIGNIFICANT STEP
IN AN OTHERWISE EXTREMELY BLEAK
HORIZON.
THERE'S BEEN ONE POSITIVE
ELEMENT OF THIS WHERE PEOPLE
HAVE AGREED AND THAT IS TO GET
RID OF THE SYRIAN CAPACITY TO
USE CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
THEY HAVE DESTROYED THE CAPACITY
OF SYRIA TO PRODUCE AND TO
DEPLOY THESE WEAPONS.
THAT'S THE FIRST STEP.
AND WHAT REMAINS IS THEY HAVE TO
GET RID OF THE AGENT, THAT IS
THE STUFF THAT YOU PUT INTO
THESE MUNITIONS.
AND THEY'RE ON THEIR WAY TO
GETTING A SOLUTION TO THAT
PROBLEM WHICH WILL PROBABLY
ENTAIL REMOVING IT FROM SYRIA.
BUT THIS IS A SIZABLE
SIGNIFICANT STEP.
THE SYRIAN CHEMICAL WEAPONS
CAPABILITY HAS BEEN DISABLED.
>> Woodruff: BUT YOU WERE
TELLING US TODAY THAT WE WERE
STILL-- WHEN WE WERE TALKING
WITH YOU-- THAT YOU SAID IT'S
STILL A MYSTERY IN TERMS OF WHAT
THEY MIGHT STILL HAVE, WHAT THEY
MIGHT STILL BE ABLE TO DO.
EXPLAIN WHAT YOU MEANT BY THAT.
>> WELL, THERE ARE GOING TO BE A
LOT OF DETAILS WHICH HAVE YET TO
BE THOROUGHLY UNDERSTOOD.
BUT THE BULK OF THE ISSUE HAS
BEEN DEALT WITH.
BUT, FOR EXAMPLE, THERE WERE
THESE INVESTIGATIONS INTO THE
USE ON AUGUST 21 WHERE SO MANY
THOUSANDS -- HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE
WERE KILLED.
THE MUNITIONS WHICH WERE USED IN
THOSE ATTACKS, ARE THOSE
MUNITION WHICH IS WERE DECLARED
AND IN FACT DESTROYED BY THE
CURRENT INVESTIGATION?
OR WERE THEY APART FROM THE
THAT?
THERE'S A LOT OF SMALL ISSUES
WHICH REMAIN TO BE RESOLVED IN
THIS.
DETAILS.
THE O.O.P.C.W., THE GROUP
CONDUCTING THESE DISARMAMENT
ACTIVITIES, HAS NOT GIVEN
DETAILS ON WHICH PIECES OF
EQUIPMENT, WHICH MUNITIONS HAVE
BEEN DESTROYED.
THOSE DETAILS WILL TELL A TALE.
NEVERTHELESS, THERE IS GOOD NEWS
HERE AND THAT IS THAT THE BULK
OF THE SYRIAN CAPACITY HAS BEEN
TAKEN OFF THE TABLE.
THE.
>> Woodruff: SO AS OF TODAY OR
NOW THAT THIS IS THIS HAS
HAPPENED, CHARLES, DUELFER, WHAT
IS THE SYRIAN CAPACITY FOR USING
CHEMICAL WEAPONS?
IS IT COMPLETELY OFF THE TABLE?
>> THE SYRIAN CAPACITY RIGHT NOW
IS VERY SMALL.
IF THERE WERE TO BE A USE OF
CHEMICAL WEAPONS RIGHT NOW IT
WOULD BE VERY LIMITED.
I THINK BASHAR AL-ASSAD TOOK A
POLITICAL DECISION, HE TOOK A
DECISION TO GET RID OF THIS SO
THAT HE COULD GAIN STATURE IN
THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY,
PROBABLY UNDER THE ADVICE OF THE
RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT.
THE RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT, I DON'T
THINK, WOULD HAVE BACKED HIM ON
THIS IF THEI FULLY COMPLY.
IT WOULD NOT BE IN BASHAR
AL-ASSAD'S INTEREST TO BE SEEN
TO BE HIDING SOMETHING AT THIS
POINT.
NEVERTHELESS, THESE THINGS WILL
HAVE TO BE INVESTIGATED.
THE TOUGH INVESTIGATIONS
PROBABLY ARE STILL DOWN THE
ROAD.
AND WHEN I SAY "TOUGH" I MEAN
GOING TO SITES WHICH PERHAPS
SYRIA HASN'T DECLARED
INVESTIGATING AND INTERVIEWING
PEOPLE WHO WERE PERHAPSED
INVOLVED TO REALLY VERIFY THAT
THEY'VE GOTTEN ALL THE NOOKS AND
CRANNIES OF THE C.W. CAPACITY.
BUT THOSE DETAILS SHOULDN'T TAKE
AWAY OF THE SIGNIFICANCE OF WHAT
HAD BEEN DONE TODAY.
SEEN FROM THE OUTSIDE, I SHOULD
POINT OUT, IF YOU'RE A SYRIAN,
YBABLY DON'T CARE THAT
MUCH ABOUT THIS BECAUSE, YOU
KNOW, FROM THE SYRIANS'
PERSPECTIVES, IT LOOKS LIKE THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY PREFERS
THEY KILL THEMSELVES WITH
CONVENTIONAL WEAPONS AS OPPOSED
TO CHEMICAL MUSICIANS.
SO THERE'S TWO WAYS OF LOOKING
AT THIS.
>> Ifill: BECAUSE, IN FACT,
CHEMICAL WEAPONS HAVE BEEN USED
BUT THEY WERE A SMALL PERCENTAGE
OF THE WEAPONS BEING USED TO
KILL, AS WE JUST HEARD, MORE
THAN
120,000 PEOPLE.
>> JEFFREY BROWN'S REPORT IS
QUITE GRAPHIC IN THAT.
THE PROBLEM IN SYRIA IS MUCH
BROADER THAN SIMPLY CHEMICAL
WEAPONS.
BUT GETTING CHEMICAL WEAPONS OFF
THE TABLE, THE RISK THAT THEY
WOULD FALL INTO THE HANDS OF
TERRORIST GROUPS, THAT'S
SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENT.
>> Woodruff: BUT NOW THERE'S
STILL -- IN TERMS OF THE
CHEMICAL WEAPONS THERE'S STILL A
COUPLE STEPS LEFT IN THIS
PROCESS, IS THAT CORRECT?
>> THE KEY STEP IS TO GET THE
AGENTS, THOSE COMPONENTS FOR
SARIN GASES, IT'S LIKE EPOXY,
YOU HAVE TO PUT PIECES OF IT
TOGETHER.
THEY NEED TO SECURE THOSE.
I THINK WHAT WILL HAPPEN IS THEY
WILL BE REMOVED FROM SYRIA.
AMBASSADOR TOM CRUNCHMAN SAID HE
FELT INCREASINGLY CONFIDENT THAT
THE ELIMINATION OF SYRIA'S
CAPACITY WAS ACHIEVABLE BY 2014
AND I THINK ELIMINATION IN THIS
CASE MEANS NOT NECESSARILY
DESTRUCTION IN SYRIA BUT REMOVAL
FROM SYRIA.
>> Woodruff: AND WE ALSO WERE
READING TODAY -- I READ A REPORT
IN "FOREIGN POLICY" MAGAZINE
THAT THE SYRIAN REGIME IS ASKING
THAT ABOUT A DOZEN OF THESE
FACILITIES THAT WERE MAKING
CHEMICAL WEAPONS, THAT THEY KEEP
CONTROL OF THOSE FACILITIES AND
THEY SAY THEY WANT TO CONVERT
THEM CIVILIAN USE.
SO WHERE DOES THAT STAND?
WRFRJTS THAT'S A NATURAL
REACTION.
THIS HAPPENED IN IRAQ WHEN WE
WERE DISARMING IRAQ.
THE SAME FACILITY WHICH IS CAN
BE USED TO PRODUCE NERVE AGENT
CAN BE USED TO PRODUCE OTHER
LEGITIMATE CIVILIAN MATERIALS.
IT'S VERY EXPENSIVE TO DO THIS.
THE FACILITIES ARE EXPENSIVE.
SO IF THEY'RE DESTROYED THAT'S A
SIGNIFICANT HIT TO THE SYRIAN
ECONOMY.
IT'S A JUDGMENT CALL ON THE PART
OF THE INSPECTORS WHETHER THEY
SHOULD ALLOW SYRIA TO DO THAT OR
NOT.
IN THE PAST THEY'VE MADE
DECISION ACCEPTING THAT KIND OF
AN ARGUMENT AND IN OTHER CASES
THEY HAVE NOT.
IT'S NOT A SURPRISE BUT IT WILL
REQUIRE CLOSE INSPECTION AND
MONITORING OVER THE LONG HAUL.
>> Woodruff: JUST FINALLY,
QUICKLY, CHARLES DUELFER, YOU
WERE TELLING US NEED THIS SHINES
A LIGHT ON THE FACT THAT THAT
THERE STILL HAVE OTHER COUNTRIES
IN THIS REGION THAT STILL HAVE
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
AND, YOU KNOW, SYRIA'S NOW THE
190th COUNTRY TO SIGN UP FOR THE
CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION.
THE REMAINING ONES THAT STAND
OUT ARE EGYPT AND NORTH KOREA.
AND NORTH KOREA KIND OF IN ITS
OWN LITTLE UNIVERSE, BUT EGYPT
IS NOW GOING TO STAND OUT AS ONE
COUNTRY IN THE REGION WHICH, YOU
KNOW, THERE'S GOING TO BE SOME
PRESSURE ON THEM TO DESCRIBE
THEIR POSITION IN THESE
CIRCUMSTANCES.
>> Woodruff: AT A TIME WHEN
THEY'RE FACING A LOT OF
POLITICAL INSTABILITY.
>> THERE ARE MANY ISSUES
SWIRLING AROUND EGYPT AND,
INDEED, THE WHOLE REGION.
>> Woodruff: CHARLES DUELFER,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Ifill: IRAQI PRIME MINISTER
NOURI AL MALIKI TOLD A
WASHINGTON AUDIENCE TODAY HIS
COUNTRY NEEDS HELP TO FIGHT A
REKINDLED TERRORIST THREAT.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
WAS THERE AND LOOKS AT THE PRIME
MINISTER'S EFFORTS TO STEM THE
BLOODSHED.
>> Reporter: IT'S BECOME AN ALL-
TOO-FAMILIAR SCENE OF RENEWED
CARNAGE IN IRAQ: A BUS STATION
HIT BY A CAR BOMB, ONE OF 10
WEEKEND ATTACKS THAT KILLED
DOZENS, ON TOP OF NEARLY 1,000
DEAD IN SEPTEMBER AND MORE THAN
7000 THIS YEAR, ACCORDING TO THE
UNITED NATIONS.
>> IT IS A PRETTY GRIM TIME IN
IRAQ WITH OVER 1,000 DEATHS A
MONTH, MOST OF THEM CAUSED BY
AL-QAEDA BOMBINGS.
>> Reporter: RYAN CROCKER SERVED
AS AMBASSADOR TO IRAQ AT THE
HEIGHT OF THE COMMUNAL
BLOODLETTING BETWEEN SUNNI AND
SHIITE MUSLIMS IN 2007 AND 2008.
HE'S NOW DEAN OF THE BUSH SCHOOL
AT TEXAS A&M.
AS BAD AS THE CURRENT ATTACKS BY
A RESURGENT IRAQI AL QAEDA
NETWORK ARE, CROCKER WARNS THEY
WOULD BE FAR MORE DEADLY IF
SUNNI AND SHIITE CIVILIANS
STARTED TURNING ON EACH OTHER
>> SO FAR, THOSE TENSIONS HAVE
NOT ERUPTED INTO THE KIND OF
FIGHTING THAT I SAW WHEN I WAS
THERE IN 2008 AND I HOPE VERY
MUCH THAT THE IRAQIS CAN KEEP
THE LID ON THE SECOND AND FAR
MORE DANGEROUS HOSTILITY.
>> Reporter: AGAINST THIS BLOODY
BACKDROP, IRAQ'S PRIME MINISTER
NOURI AL-MALIKI ARRIVED IN
WASHINGTON THIS WEEK.
HE MET  WITH VICE-PRESIDENT
BIDEN YESTERDAY, AND OTHER TOP
OFFICIALS.
HE'S ALSO MADE THE ROUNDS ON
CAPITOL HILL, ARGUING FOR MORE
U.S. MILITARY HARDWARE, AND
COUNTER-TERRORISM AND
INTELLIGENCE AID TO FIGHT A
RESURGENT AL QAIDA.
MALIKI BLAMES IRAS SUQ'RGE IN
BLOODSHED, WHICH EXPLODED  LAST
SPRING, ON THE CIVIL WAR IN
NEIGHBORING SYRIA AS HE DID
TODAY IN A SPEECH AT THE U.S.
INSTITUTE OF PEACE.
>> ( translated ): TERRORISTS
CAME BACK TO IRAQ WHEN THE
CONFLICT STARTED IN SYRIA,
GROUPS LIKE AL QAEDA AND AL
NUSRA FRONT FOUND THAT THERE'S
ANOTHER CHANCE TO BENEFIT FROM
THE POLITICAL CONFLICT AND
CREATE TERROR IN IRAQ.
SO THE TERRORISTS FOUND A SECOND
CHANCE.
ALL OF THE IRAQI ARE TARGETED--
THE SUNNIS, THE SHIITES, THE
ARABINS, THE KURDS ARE ALL
KILLED ALIKE.
AL QAEDA WANT TO REACH THEIR
GOAL BY SHEDDING THE BLOOD OF
THE IRAQIS AND SPREADING TERROR.
>> Reporter: SYRIA AND IRAQ
SHARE A 400-MILE LARGELY
UNGUARDED BORDER, THROUGH WHICH
ARMS AND ANTI-GOVERNMENT SUNNI
FIGHTERS NOW FLOW FREELY.
"IT'S A DANGEROUS COMBINATION,"
SAYS MARC LYNCH, MIDDLE EAST
STUDIES DIRECTOR AT GEORGE
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY.
>> PEOPLE AND GUNS MOVE ACROSS
THE BORDER QUITE EASILY AND AS
YOU GET MORE SUCCESS FOR THE
JIHADISTS IN SYRIA, THAT THEN
RICOCHETS INTO IRAQ AND SO I
THINKING WHAT YOU'RE SEEING IS
AN ACTUAL CONCERTED EFFORT ON
THE PART OF THESE MOVEMENTS TO
CARVE OUT TERRITORY THAT SPANS
THE BORDER AND CREATES A SAFE
HAVEN FROM IRAQ INTO SYRIA.
>> Reporter: BUT MANY CRITICS
HERE AND IN IRAQ SAY ELECTED
PRIME MINISTER MALIKI AND HIS
SHIITE-DOMINATED GOVERNMENT
SHARE THE BLAME FOR THE RISING
DANGERS TO THEIR COUNTRY BY
MONOPOLIZING GOVERNMENT POWER IN
A WAY THAT HAS REKINDLED SUNNI
RESENTMENT AND ANGER.
ARIZONA SENATOR JOHN McCAIN IS
AMONG THEM.
>> THE MAJOR REASON FOR THE
UNRAVELING IN IRAQ WAS MALIKI'S
FAILURE TO GOVERN IN AN
INCLUSIVE FASHION.
MEASURES WHICH HE HAS TAKEN
WHICH HAVE ALIENATED THE SUNNI
POPULATION, THEREFORE A BREEDING
GROUND, THEREFORE THEN
ASSISTANCE TO SYRIA.
I THINK THE GENESIS WAS THE
FAILURE OF MALIKI'S GOVERNMENT,
AND IT WAS TAKEN ADVANTAGE OF BY
THE SITUATION IN SYRIA.
>> Reporter: OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS DON'T
DISAGREE, BUT WANT TO HELP
MALIKI ANYWAY.
THE REASON, EXPLAINS RYAN
CROCKER, IS THAT THERE'S STILL
MUCH AT STAKE IN WHAT HAPPENS IN
IRAQ FOR THE SECURITY OF THE
U.S. AND THE WIDER REGION.
>> WE ARE SEEING THE MOST
VOLATILE AND BLOODY TIMES IN THE
MIDDLE EAST'S MODERN HISTORY AND
IT IS DENOMINATED IN SECTARIAN
TERMS.
THIS IS MORE THAN ANYTHING A
SECTARIAN FIGHT, IRAQ HAS BEEN
THROUGH THAT, AL-QAEDA IS DOING
ITS BEST TO REIGNITE IT.
THE SITUATION IN SYRIA CAN BE
VERY CONTAGIOUS, SO KEY
COUNTRIES LIKE IRAQ HAVE TO HOLD
AND WE HAVE TO HELP THEM HOLD OR
THE ENTIRE REGION MIGHT JUST GO
UP IN FLAMES.
I LIKEN SYRIA TO A FOREST FIRE.
THE REALLY BIG ONES CANNOT BE
>> Reporter: YET AFTER THE
THOUSANDS OF AMERICAN TROOP
DEATHS AND BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
SPENT IN IRAQ BEFORE THE U.S.
PULL-OUT IN LATE 2011.
THERE IS SOME PUSHBACK ON
CAPITOL HILL TO MALIKI'S
REQUESTS.
IN A LETTER TO THE PRESIDENT
YESTERDAY, McCAIN AND FIVE OTHER
SENATORS OF BOTH PARTIES URGED
MR OBAMA TO PRESS MALIKI TO
FORMULATE A COMPREHENSIVE
POLITICAL AND SECURITY STRATEGY
THAT CAN STABILIZE THE COUNTRY.
HIGH ON THEIR LIST OF
COMPLAINTS: IRAN'S INFLUENCE IN
IRAQ, AND IRAN'S USE OF IRAQI
AIRSPACE TO TRANSIT MILITARY
ASSISTANCE INTO SYRIA TO SUPPORT
PRESIDENT BASHAR ASSAD AND HIS
FORCES.
IRAQ'S AMBASSADOR TO THE U.S.,
LUKMAN FAILY, SAYS BAGHDAD  HAS
TOLD IRAN IT WON'T TOLERATE SUCH
OVERFLIGHTS OF WEAPONS.
BUT UNTIL PROMISED U.S. FIGHTER
JETS ARE DELIVERED NEXT FALL, HE
INSISTS, THERE IS LITTLE HIS
COUNTRY CAN DO.
>> WE THINK IT'S A BIT UNFAIR
FOR OTHERS TO ASK US TO STOP A
PLANE OR TO STOP A PLANE WHILE
WE HAVEN'T GOT THE CAPABILITIES
TO FORCE DOWN A PLANE.
TO FORCE IT DOWN.
WE DON'T HAVE THE F16 OR ANY OF
THAT TYPE OF FIGHTER TO TRY TO
FORCE A PLANE
>> I JUST THINK IT'S AN EXCUSE.
THERE ARE PLENTY OF NATIONS WHO
DON'T HAVE THE ABILITY TO POLICE
THEIR AIRSPACE YET THEY DON'T
ALLOW OVERFLIGHTS PARTICULARLY
OF THIS NATURE.
LOOK, THESE ARE PLANE LOAD AFTER
PLANE LOAD OF LETHAL WEAPONS
THAT ARE KILLING THE SYRIAN
PEOPLE BY THIS BRUTAL DICTATOR.
>> Reporter: THE SENATORS'
LETTER ALSO EMPHATICALLY URGED
THE PRESIDENT TO PRESS MALIKI TO
BRING SUNNI POLITICAL LEADERS
INTO THE FOLD.
SUNNIS HAVE BEEN ANGERED BY THE
CRACKDOWN ON RECENT ANTI-
GOVERNMENT PROTESTERS AND THE
DETENTION OF SOME OF THEIR
PROMINENT FIGURES, ESPECIALLY
LAST YEAR'S TRIAL IN ABSENTIA OF
VICE PRESIDENT TAREQ AL-HASHEMI.
HE WAS SENTENCED TO DIE FOR
ALLEGEDLY RUNNING DEATH SQUADS,
A CHARGE HE DENIED FROM TURKEY,
WHERE HE'D FLED.
AMBASSADOR FAILY DENIES THAT
MALIKI HAS TRIED TO MONOPOLIZE
POWER FOR THE SHIITES SAYING
THAT IRAQ IS A YOUNG DEMOCRACY
THAT'S STILL WORKING ON HOW TO
UNIFY ITS DIFFERENT SECTS.
>> THE POWER SHARING BETWEEN THE
ETHNICITIES AND COMMUNITIES OF
IRAQ ARE EVOLVING AS A RESULT OF
ELECTION AND DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM.
SOME MAY BE UNHAPPY TO THE NEW
IRAQ.
>> IS PRIME MINISTER MALIKI
PREPARED TO OFFER ANYTHING
CONCRETE THAT WOULD MAKE SUNNIS
FEEL MORE INCLUDED IN THE
POLITICAL SYSTEM?
>> THE ELECTION NEXT SPRING WILL
SURELY BRING COALITIONS WHO MAY
NOT TAKE PLACE AT THIS MOMENT,
SO THE POLITICAL REALITIES WILL
CHANGE ACCORDING TO THE
ASPIRATIONS OF THE PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: BUT DOES THE PRIME
MINISTER HAVE THE ABILITY TO
REACH ACROSS IRAQ'S SECTARIAN
DIVIDES TO MEET THOSE
ASPIRATIONS?
AMBASSADOR CROCKER BELIEVES
MALIKI WANTS TO CREATE A
PLURALISTIC IRAQ, BUT THE WEIGHT
OF HISTORY MAKES THAT HARD FOR
HIM.
>> WE ALSO HAVE TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT IRAQ HAS BEEN THROUGH.
PRIME MINISTER MALIKI COMES OUT
OF A CLANDESTINE SHIITE
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION THAT WAS
OPPRESSED AND OFTEN MURDERED BY
SADAM HUSSEIN.
IT DOESN'T CREATE THE POLITICIAN
OR CLIMATE THAT LANDS ITSELF
EASILY TO COMPROMISE.
>> Reporter: MARC LYNCH BELIEVES
THIS TIME MIGHT BE DIFFERENT.
>> GIVEN MALIKI'S HISTORY,
THERE'S NO REASON TO BELIEVE HE
WILL MAKE THOSE CHOICES BUT IT'S
MORE LIKELY THAN BEFORE.
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME SINCE
HE'S BEEN IN POWER THAT HE FEELS
HE FACES AN EXISTENTIAL THREAT
THAT THE U.S. CAN HELP HIM WITH.
>> Reporter: AT THEIR WHITE
HOUSE MEETING TOMORROW,
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS SURE TO URGE
THE PRIME MINISTER TO STEP UP TO
THOSE CHOICES.
>> Woodruff: WE'VE BEEN SPEAKING
WITH MEMBERS OF THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY ABOUT INTERNAL CONFLICTS
THAT LED TO THE PARTIAL
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN, AND WHERE
THE G.O.P. GOES FROM HERE WITH
RECORD-LOW APPROVAL RATING.
WE CONCLUDE THE SERIES TONIGHT
WITH A THIRD-TERM SENATOR KNOWN
FOR WORKING ACROSS THE AISLE.
IT WAS HER BLUEPRINT THAT HELPED
LEAD TO THE COMPROMISE THAT RE-
OPENED THE GOVERNMENT.
SENATOR SUSAN COLLINS OF MAINE
JOINS US FROM CAPITOL HILL.
SENATOR, THANK YOU FOR BEING
WITH US.
AND I FIRST WANT TO ASK YOU TO
PUT ON YOUR HAT AS A MEMBER OF
THE SENATE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE ASK YOU ABOUT THESE
NEW REPORTS ABOUT N.S.A.,
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY'S
SURVEILLANCE IN ASIA, INCLUDING
USING THE U.S. AND THE EMBASSIES
OF THE UNITED STATES AND ALLIES
AND ALSO THIS INFORMATION ABOUT
N.S.A. TAPPING INTO
COMMUNICATION LINKS OF GOOGLE
AND YAHOO!
IS THERE SOMETHING YOU CAN SAY
TO HELP US UNDERSTAND WHAT'S
GOING ON?
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF IT?
>> WE HAD A BRIEFING IN THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE TODAY AND
OBVIOUSLY IT'S A CLASSIFIED
BRIEFING, THAT'S ONE OF THE
FRUSTRATIONS OF BEING ON THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE IS YOU
CA SHARE INFORMATION.
BUT AS YOU KNOW, GENERAL
ALEXANDER, THE HEAD OF THE
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY, HAS
SAID THAT THE REPORTS ABOUT THE
N.S.A. TAPPING INTO GOOGLE
SERVERS IS NOT AN ACCURATE
REPORT.
CLEARLY, HOWEVER, WE NEED TO
HAVE REFORMS OF THE SYSTEM.
WE NEED TO HAVE MORE
TRANSPARENCY.
AND WE NEED TO ENSURE THAT THE
PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OF
AMERICANS ARE BEING SAFEGUARDED.
AND JUST TODAY WE APPROVED A
MAJOR REFORM BILL THAT WOULD L
DO JUST THAT.
I'M VERY PLEASED THAT IT
INCLUDES AN AMENDMENT THAT I
AUTHORED WITH MY COLLEAGUE ANGUS
KING FROM MAINE THAT WILL
STRENGTHEN THE ROLE OF THE
PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES
BOARD TO DO FOR OVERSIGHT OF
N.S.A.'S COLLECTION PROGRAMS.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR, LET ME
TURN YOU NOW -- THANK YOU FOR
THAT.
I WANT TO TURN YOU NOW TO THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY AND THERE'S A
NEW NBC/"WALL STREET JOURNAL"
POLL OUT NEED SHOWS RECORD LOW
APPROVAL RATINGS FOR YOUR PARTY
FOR THE REPUBLICAN PARTY.
IT SHOWS APPROVAL IS DOWN FOR
THE GOVERNMENT OVERALL BUT FOR
REPUBLICANS 22% POSITIVE, 53%
NEGATIVE.
WHY DO YOU THINK THAT IS?
>> THAT'S CERTAINLY A CLARION
CALL FOR THE REPUBLICANS FROM MY
PARTY TO DO A LOT OF
SELF-EXAMINATION.
I THINK IT'S WORTH NOTING THAT
THE PRESIDENT'S APPROVAL RATINGS
ARE DOWN AS WELL.
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY'S IS DOWN.
BUT YOU'RE CERTAINLY RIGHT THAT
NO ONE IS LOWER THAN THE
REPUBLICANS RIGHT NOW.
THE REFLECTS THE LOSS OF
CONFIDENCE IN THE ABILITY OF
WASHINGTON AS A WHOLE TO GOVERN
RESPONSIBLY AND I BELIEVE THAT
THE SHUTDOWN OF THIS PAST MONTH
OF GOVERNMENT FOR 16 DAYS, THE
NEARNESS THAT WE CAME TO
DEFAULTING ON OUR DEBTS AND THE
LACK OF A LONG-TERM FISCAL PLAN
TO DEAL WITH OUR $17 TRILLION
DEBT ARE THE REASONS WHY.
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE CLEARLY
FRUSTRATED AND FED UP WITH THE
PARTISAN GRIDLOCK AND THE
EXCESSIVE PARTISANSHIP THAT
THEY'RE SEEING IN WASHINGTON.
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK YOU
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT THE GROWING
INFLUENCE IN YOUR PARTY OVER THE
LAST FEW YEARS OF NOT JUST THE
TEA PARTY BUT STRONG VIEWS HELD
BY SELF-IDENTIFIED LIBERTARIANS.
AND THESE INCREASINGLY ARE
INDIVIDUALS WHO BELIEVE IN A
DRAMATICALLY SMALLER ROLE FOR
GOVERNMENT PERIOD.
THEY WERE A MAJOR PART OF THE,
THE SHUTDOWN OF THE GOVERNMENT
EARLIER THIS MONTH.
HOW DO YOU SEE THAT INFLUENCE IN
YOUR PARTY?
DO YOU SEE IT GROWING?
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN FROM
HERE?
>> WELL, FIRST LET ME SAY THAT I
BELIEVE IN A BIG TENT REPUBLICAN
PARTY WHERE THERE'S ROOM FOR A
VARIETY OF VIEWS.
I HAVE GREATLY DISAGREED WITH
THE TACTICS THAT LED TO THE
SHUTDOWN OF GOVERNMENT.
THERE WAS NO WAY TO -- THAT
SHUTTING DOWN GOVERNMENT WAS
SOMEHOW GOING TO LEAD TO THE
DEFUNDING OR REPEAL OF THE
PRESIDENT'S SIGNATURE
ACHIEVEMENT OF OBAMACARE.
I OPPOSED OBAMACARE, VOTED
AGAINST IT, HAVE VOTED MANY
TIMES TO REPEAL AND REFORM IT
BUT THAT WAS JUST A TACTIC THAT
MADE ABSOLUTELY NO SENSE.
AND I THINK THOSE POLL NUMBERS
ARE REFLECTING SOME FRUSTRATION.
HAVING SAID THAT, I THINK THAT
THE TEA PARTY, THE OTHER
INFLUENCES IN OUR PARTY HAVE
KEPT A FOCUS ON THE SIZE OF
GOVERNMENT AND ON OUR $17
TRILLION NATIONAL DEBT THAT IS
AN IMPORTANT FOCUS FOR OUR
PARTY.
BUT I CERTAINLY DISAGREE WITH
THE STRATEGY THAT WAS ADOPTED.
IT WAS NEVER GOING TO BE
SUCCESSFUL AND IT WAS THE
FANTASY TO THINK THAT IT WAS.
>> Woodruff: WELL, I DON'T KNOW,
SENATOR, IF YOU CONSIDER
YOURSELF A MODERATE REPUBLICAN
BUT I KNOW MANY OTHER PEOPLE WHO
WATCH POLITICS CLOSELY DO.
WHY DO YOU THINK THERE ARE SO
FEW MODERATES LEFT IN ELECTED
OFFICE IN YOUR PARTY?
>> IN THE LAST FEW YEARS WE'VE
SEEN THROUGH THAT COMBINATION OF
FACTORS INCLUDING GERRYMANDERING
I WOULD ARGUE THE 24/7 NEWS
CYCLE, A LOT OF DIFFERENT
FACTORS HAVE COMBINED TO ELECT
PEOPLE WHO ARE AT THE EXTREMES
OF BOTH PARTIES-- THE FAR LEFT
AND THE FAR RIGHT.
AND THAT HAS LEAD TO A SHRINKING
MIDDLE.
BUT I THINK THE PENDULUM IS
STARTING TO SWING BACK AND
EVIDENCE OF THAT IS THE GROUP OF
14 SENATORS THAT I PUT
TOGETHER-- SEVEN REPUBLICANS,
SIX DEMOCRATS AND AN
INDEPENDENT-- TO WORK TOGETHER
ON A PLAN TO PAVE THE WAY TO THE
END OF THE SHUTDOWN IMPASSE.
THAT'S A PRETTY LARGE NUMBER OF
SENATORS WORKING TOGETHER AND
ULTIMATELY AGREEING ON A
SIX-POINT PLAN AND THAT GIVES ME
HOPE THAT THE CENTER WILL COME
BACK.
IN ADDITION, I THINK THE CENTER
IS WHERE MOST PEOPLE OF THIS
COUNTRY ARE AND THEY JUST NEED
TO MAKE THEIR VOICES HEARD.
>> Woodruff: VERY QUICK ANSWER:
DO YOU THINK ELECTING MORE WOMEN
WOULD MAKE THE PARTY MORE
MODERATE?
>> I DO.
I ALSO THINK WOMEN TEND TO BE
MORE COLLABORATIVE EVEN THOUGH
WE SPAN THE IDEOLOGICAL SPECK
FLUPL THE SENATE.
>> Woodruff: SENATOR SUSAN
COLLINS OF MAINE, WE THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW, A LOOK AT THE
SURPRISING ROOTS OF OUR MODERN
GLOBAL FOREIGN POLICY.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THAT.
>> IN HIS NEW BOOK "LINCOLN AND
THE WORLD, THE MAKING OF A
STATESMAN AND THE DAWN OF
AMERICAN POWER" KEVIN PERAINO
EXPLORES THE SIDE OF THE 16th
PRESIDENT THAT WE HAVEN'T SEEN
BEFORE.
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT FOREIGN
POLICY.
WE THINK OF LINCOLN AS THE GREAT
EMANCIPATOR AND IN THE CONTEXT
OF CIVIL RIGHTS.
SIMPLY PUT, WHAT IS THE FOREIGN
POLICY PRESIDENT LINCOLN HAD?
>> WE THINK OF THE CIVIL WAR AS
A DOMESTIC CONFLICT BUT IT WAS
ALSO A GLOBAL CONFLICT AND
LINCOLN HAD TO DEAL WITH A
SERIES OF CRISES OVER THE COURSE
OF HIS PRESIDENCY FROM FRANCE,
FROM BRITAIN, FROM SPAIN, EVEN
RUSSIAN SHIPS SHOWED UP OFF THE
ATLANTIC COAST IN THE MIDDLE OF
THE WAR.
ANY ONE OF THESE CRISES COULD
HAVE CHANGED THE COURSE OF THE
WAR IF HANDLED BADLY, COULD HAVE
CHANGED THE COURSE OF AMERICAN
HISTORY I DON'T THINK IT'S TOO
MUCH TO SAY.
>> Sreenivasan: SO IT'S ONE
SUCCESS THAT HE KEPT EUROPE
HOW DO WE KNOW HE WAS THINKING
ABOUT SLAVEFULLY A GLOBAL
CONTEXT?
>> WELL, LINCOLN VIEWED THE
EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION PARTLY
AS AN EFFORT TO SPEAK ACROSS THE
ATLANTIC OCEAN TO ORDINARY
EUROPEANS.
ONE THING THAT'S INTERESTING TO
ME IS THAT THE 19th CENTURY, THE
MID-19th CENTURY-- LIKE OUR OWN
AGE-- WAS ALSO AN INFORMATION
AGE.
THE TELEGRAPH, THE STEAMSHIP,
EXPLODING NUMBER OF NEWSPAPERS
WERE SHRINKING THE WORLD.
LINCOLN REALIZED THIS AND
DECIDED "I HAVE THE CAPABILITY
NOW TO SPEAK DIRECTLY TO
ORDINARY EUROPEANS."
THIS IS A GENERATION BEFORE
TEDDY ROOSEVELT AND THE BULLY
PULPIT.
>> Sreenivasan: SO HE WAS REALLY
SEIZING TECHNOLOGY TO TRY TO SAY
SOFT POWER AND PUBLIC DIPLOMACY
IS VERY IMPORTANT AND REALLY
RECOGNIZING THE POWER OF PUBLIC
OPINION ALMOST.
>> RIGHT.
IT WAS A VERY INTERESTING PERIOD
BECAUSE ON THE ONE HAND THE
TELEGRAPH YOU COULD FLASH NEWS
FROM ONE PART OF THE NORTH
AMERICA TO THE OTHER.
ON THE OTHER HAND, THE
TRANSATLANTIC TELEGRAPH WASN'T
YET WORKING SO NEWS TOOK TEN
DAYS TO TWO WEEKS TO GET ACROSS
THE ATLANTIC ASSOCIATION THIS
CREATED A LOT OF INTERESTING
THINGS.
I THINK SOMETIMES THE FACT THAT
NEWS TOOK SO LONG TO GET ACROSS
THE ATLANTIC DIFFUSED SOME OF
THESE CRISES.
IT GAVE PASSIONS TIME TO COOL
DOWN.
>> Sreenivasan: LET'S TALK ABOUT
THE IMPACT THE FIRST LADY HAD ON
FOREIGN POLICY.
PEOPLE THINK ABOUT SALLY FIELD
PLAYING THE CHARACTER BUT SHE
WAS MUCH MORE THIS RUDE IN THE
SENSE THAT SHI IS THE PERSON
THAT IS KIND OF WELL READ.
YOU SAY HE'S THE COMMON GUY FROM
ILLINOIS.
>> SHE WAS FAR MORE COSMOPOLITAN
THAN HER HUSBAND WAS.
SHE WENT TO SCHOOL WHEN SHE WAS
GROWING WHEREUPON THE STUDENTS
SPOKE FRENCH AND IN HER HOUSE
GROWING UP IT WAS FILLED WITH
THE FRENCH MAHOGANY FURNITURE
AND BELGIAN RUGS AND HENRY CLAY,
THE GREAT AMERICAN DIPLOMAT WAS
A NEIGHBOR AND SO, YES, SHE WAS
FAR MORE COSMOPOLITAN THAN
LINCOLN AND SHE LET HIM KNOW IT.
ON A NUMBER OF OCCASION SHE IS
TRIED TO INFLUENCE DIPLOMATIC
APPOINTMENTS, SHE TRIED TO GET
HER FRIENDS AND ALLIES APPOINTED
TO KEY POSTS.
SOMETIMES IT WORKED, SOMETIMES
IT DIDN'T BUT IT WAS AN
INTERESTING DYNAMIC.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU'RE SAYING
SOME OF THE REQUESTS WERE THAT
WE SHOULD STATION THIS DIPLOMAT
IN HAWAIITOR SANDWICH ISLANDS
BECAUSE HE'S NOT DOING TOO WELL
AND THE WEATHER WILL DO HIM
GOOD.
IT WASN'T A VERY STRUCTURED
PROCESS.
>> THAT'S ONE OF MY FAVORITE
STORIES.
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE CIVIL WAR A
DELEGATION COMES TO LINCOLN AND
SAYS "WE WANT OUR GUY APPOINTED
IN THE SANDWICH ISLANDS IN
HAWAII."
AND THEY SAY, YOU KNOW -- THEY
MAKE THEIR CASE ON THE MERIT AND
THEN THEY SAY "BY THE WAY, HE'S
REALLY SICK, THE CLIMATE WOULD
DO HIM GOOD."
AND ONE OF MY FAVORITE LINES,
LINCOLN SAYS "YOU KNOW, GUYS,
UNFORTUNATELY THERE ARE EIGHT
OTHER APPLICANTS FOR THAT JOB
AND THEY'RE ALL SICKER THAN YOUR
MAN."
SO HOW IS IT THAT LINCOLN IS SO
OMITTEN ABOUT?
5,000 BOOKS ON LINCOLN AND
HIGHER.
WHY HAVEN'T PEOPLE TACKLED
FOREIGN POLICY?
WHY ARE WE NOT SEEING THAT
DIMENSION OF HIM?
>> I THINK PART OF THE PROBLEM
IS THAT LINCOLN HAD A VERY
STRONG AND THE COMPETENT
SECRETARY OF STATE IN WILLIAM
HENRY SEWARD.
HE DELEGATE ADD LOT OF
DAY-TO-DAY RESPONSIBILITY TO
SEWARD AND SO I THINK AS LOT OF
THE BOOKS THAT HAVE LIFTED
LINCOLN AND FOREIGN POLICY, IF
YOU TRY TO PUT HIM AT THE CENTER
YOU GET A F -- SO I TRIED TO
LOOK AT THE THINGS LINCOLN DID
DO WHICH ARE HUGELY IMPORTANT
WITHOUT EVERYTHING OR SAYING HE
DID EVERYTHING RIGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU MENTIONED
SECRETARY SEWARD WAS A
PREDECESSOR TO AN EARLY BLOGGER.
HE WAS PUBLISHING-- FOR P.R.
REASONS-- THAT'S SOMETHING NEW
AT THE TIME.
>> HE PUBLISHED HIS DIPLOMATIC
DISPATCHES PARTLY FOR P.R.
REASONS.
LINCOLN HAD -- REMEMBER THIS
FLAP ABOUT TWITTER THAT WAS
FIRED AT THE NATIONAL SECURITY
STAFF.
LINCOLN HAD HIS EQUIVALENT.
THERE WAS A POLISH COUNT WORKING
AT THE STATE DEPARTMENT THAT
PUBLISHED HIS DIARIES WHERE HE
TRASH IT HAD PRESIDENT AND
SECRETARY OF STATE DURING THE
COURSE OF THE WAR.
LINCOLN HAD TO FIRE HIM JUST
LIKE THIS ONE WAS FIRED.
>> Sreenivasan: I FOUND AN
INTERESTING TIDBIT, KARL MARX
WAS WRITING FOR A PAPER THAT
LINCOLN READ VERY CLOSELY.
HOW DO WE KNOW?
>> THAT'S UN
>>/MY FAVORITE CHAPTERS.
WE FOCUS ON MARX AND THE REASON
THAT MARX IS INTERESTING TO ME,
MARX AND LINCOLN DIDN'T KNOW
EACH OTHER PERSONALLY.
THEY EXCHANGED LETTERS BUT A
THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE DON'T
REALIZE IS THAT THEY WERE
CONTEMPORARIES AND ONE THING
THEY WERE BOTH DOING IS
STRUGGLING WITH HOW TO OPERATE
IN THIS INFORMATION AGE.
MARX WAS ALSO A JOURNALIST
ASIDING FROM WRITING HIS
ACADEMIC TREATISES HE WROTE FOR
THE NEW YORK TRIBUNE AND SO THE
TWO OF THESE GUYS ARE TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT HOW DO YOU MAKE SENSE
OF THIS WORLD IN WHICH THERE ARE
NO SECRETS, IN WHICH THE WORLD
WAS SMALLER?
I THINK THEY BOTH DID IT TO
VARYING DEGREES OF SUCCESS.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THEY BOTH
SAW THE IMPACT IT WOULD HAVE FOR
THE OUTCOME OF THE CIVIL WAR IN
DIFFERENT WAYS?
>> RIGHT.
MARX WAS A SUPPORTER OF THE
UNION.
HE THOUGHT THAT IF THE BOURGEOIS
UNION COULD DEFEAT THE SOUTHERN
ARISTOCRACY THEN THAT WAS ONE
STEP CLOSER TO THE PROLETARIAT
TRIUMPHING OVER BOTH.
SO HE WANTED LINCOLN TO WIN THE
CIVIL WAR AND HE DIDN'T
INITIALLY HAVE A STRONG OPINION
OF LINCOLN, A FAVORABLE OPINION
OF LINCOLN BUT BY THE END OF THE
WAR LINCOLN HAD GAINED A MEASURE
OF MARX'S RESPECT.
>> Sreenivasan: WE'LL CONTINUE
THIS CONVERSATION ONLINE AND
TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT LINCOLN
AND PERHAPS HOW HE WOULD REACT
TO THE NEWS OF TODAY.
WITH KEVIN PERAINO, THE AUTHOR
OF "LINCOLN IN THE WORLD: THE
MAKING A STATESMAN AND THE DAWN
OF AMERICAN POWER."
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS, HARI.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
BOSTON SAVORS A CHAMPIONSHIP
AGAIN, AFTER A SEASON WHERE THE
RED SOX BECAME A RALLYING POINT
FOR MANY IN THE CITY.
JEFFREY BROWN CAPS THIS BASEBALL
SEASON FOR BEANTOWN.
>> IT HASN'T HAPPENED IN FENWAY
PARK FOR 95 YEARS!
>> Brown: IN FACT, THE LAST TIME
THE RED SOX CLINCHED A WORLD
SERIES IN BOSTON, BABE RUTH
PLAYED FOR THE TEAM AND HE WAS A
PITCHER.
>> THE RED SOX ARE WORLD
CHAMPIONS!
>> Brown: BUT LAST NIGHT THE
VERY HAIRY 2013 EDITION OF THE
TEAM DID IT WITH A GAME SIX WIN
OVER THE ST. LOUIS CARDINALS,
AFTER A SERIES THAT FEATURED
DRAMATIC, GAME-ENDING PLAYS,
INCLUDING AN UNPRECEDENTED
OBSTRUCTION CALL AGAINST BOSTON
AND THE PICKOFF OF A ST. LOUIS
BASE-RUNNER.
BOSTON SLUGGER DAVID ORTIZ WAS
NAMED MOST VALUABLE PLAYER,
LEADING A TEAM THAT HAD FINISHED
LAST IN ITS DIVISION JUST A YEAR
AGO.
>> THIS IS THE KIND OF SITUATION
WHERE THE UNPREDICTABLE HAPPENS.
WE HAD A LITTLE CHIP ON OUR
SHOULDER, THAT WE WANT TO COME
IN AND PROVE EVERYONE WRONG.
AND THANKS GOD WE DID.
>> GREATEST PLACE ON EARTH!
>> Brown: THE WIN SENT FANS
POURING INTO THE STREETS,
CELEBRATING THEIR TEAM'S THIRD
TITLE IN TEN SEASONS AND MARKING
ANOTHER EMOTIONAL TURNAROUND,
JUST SIX MONTHS AFTER THE BOSTON
MARATHON BOMBINGS SHOOK THE
CITY.
LEE MONTVILLE WAS AT FENWAY PARK
LAST NIGHT, WHERE HE'S COVERED
THE RED SOX FOR MANY YEARS-- NOT
QUITE BACK TO BABE RUTH'S TIME--
AS A SPORTWRITER FOR THE BOSTON
GLOBE AND "SPORTS ILLUSTRATED"
AND NOW FOR sportsonearth.com.
WELL, LEE, I MENTIONED THE
WORST-TO-FIRST ASPECT OF THIS.
A BIG PART OF THAT WAS CHANGING
A NUMBER OF PLAYERS, RIGHT?
TELL US HOW THEY TURNED THINGS
AROUND.
>> SURE.
THEY RIPPED UP THE ROSTER PRETTY
MUCH AND SENT A BUNCH OF GUYS
OUT TO LOS ANGELES WHO THEY
THOUGHT WERE MALCONTENTS AND
DIDN'T FIT INTO THE PROGRAM AND
THEY BROUGHT IN A BUNCH OF BIT
PLAYERS.
THEY DIDN'T GO OUT FOR THE
HIGH-PRICED FRY AGENTS AS THEY
HAD IN RECENT TIMES.
THEY WENT AND GOT SOME KIND OF
"B" ACTORS AND CHARACTER ACTORS
AND BROUGHT THEM IN AND PUT THEM
AROUND A CORE THAT HAD BEEN HERE
LAST YEAR, SOME PITCHERS WHO HAD
BEEN BELEAGUERED AND KIND OF
RAKED OVER THE COALS AND PAR
BOILED FOR 24 HOURS EVERYDAY BY
THE TALK SHOWS AND A FEW PLAYERS
THAT HAD BEEN KIND OF INJURED IN
LAST YEAR'S BAD YEAR.
AND THEY PUT IT ALL TOGETHER AND
SOMEHOW IT ALL WORKED.
EVERY PIECE THEY PUT INTO THE
PUZZLE SEEMED TO FIT JUST RIGHT.
>> Brown: WE TALK ABOUT THE
FIRST WIN IN BOSTON BUT, OF
COURSE, IT WAS 2004 THAT WAS THE
GREAT LIFTING OF THE CURSE AND
YOU AND I TALKED AT THAT TIME
WHEN THAT HAPPENED.
HOW DID LAST NIGHT COMPARE TO
THEN?
>> WELL, I MYSELF THINK THAT
NOTHING COMPARES TO THEN.
THEN WAS A NIGHT IN 2004, IT WAS
AN 86-YEAR-OLD SORT OF CRUSADE,
A LOCAL QUEST FOR THE HOLY
GRAILMENT PEOPLE LIVED, PEOPLE
DIED, FATHERS, MOTHERS, KIDS,
GRANDFATHERS AND THE RED SOX
NEVER WON THE WORLD SERIES.
AND WHEN IT FINALLY HAPPENED IN
2004 IT WAS JUST A COMMUNAL
RELIEF AND PEOPLE WERE GOING TO
GRAVE SITES AND TALKING TO
DECEASED PEOPLE AND IT WAS JUST
AN OUTFLOW OF EMOTION.
SINCE THEN RED SOX HAVE BEEN
ANOTHER GOOD TEAM AND YOU FOLLOW
THEM LIKE A KNOW MALL TEAM AND
THE GREAT BOULDER THAT WE ALL
WERE CARRYING AROUND FOR SO MANY
YEARS HAS BEEN REMOVED AND IT
KIND OF FREED EVERYBODY UP TO BE
NORMAL, I SUPPOSE.
>> Brown: I TOLD YOU THEN AND I
REMIND YOU NOW I WAS ONE OF THEM
GROWING UP IN BOSTON SO I KNOW
ABOUT THE REAL CONNECTION OF THE
TEAM TO THE CITY.
AND IN THAT LIGHT I WANT TO ASK
YOU ABOUT THE CONNECTION TO THE
BOMBING AT THE MARATHON, THE
TRAGEDY.
THERE WAS TALK ABOUT THAT LAST
NIGHT ABOUT HOW THE PLAYERS
FELT, THE ORGANIZATION FELT AND
CLEARLY THE FANS FELT.
>> YES, THAT'S RIGHT.
THERE WAS A VERY BIG CONNECTION
TO THE MARATHON BOMBING BECAUSE
THE RED SOX ALWAYS PLAY AN 11:00
GAME ON PATRIOTS' DAY AND THAT'S
IN APRIL AND SO THEY WERE RIGHT
AROUND WHEN IT ALL HAPPENED.
AND THEY JUMPED INTO THE
SITUATION FROM THE BEGINNING.
I GUESS THEY WOULD SEND LIKE
LITTLE GROUPS OF FIVE PLAYERS
OFF TO SEE PEOPLE IN HOSPITAL
ROOMS AND TALK WITH THEM AND ALL
SEASON THEY HONORED THE VICTIMS
OF THAT AND THE FIRST RESPONDERS
AND THEY NEVER LET IT GO AND IT
-- IN THE PAST PLAYERS KIND OF
HAD A SKETCHY RELATIONSHIP WITH
THE CITY.
THEY'RE UNDER INTENSE SCRUTINY
HERE AND THEY DIDN'T LIKE IT.
YOU HAD TO BE A CERTAIN KIND OF
PLAYER TO PLAY IN BOSTON AND
YOU'RE ALWAYS BEING CRITICIZED
WHEN YOU DO WRONG AND THESE
BUNCH -- THIS BUNCH OF GUYS SEEM
TO EMBRACE THE WHOLE SITUATION
IN BOSTON AND BOSTON CAME TO
EMBRACE THEM IN THE END.
AND IT'S -- IT'S BEEN A FAR MORE
SYMBIOTIC, NICE RELATIONSHIP
THAN I CAN EVER REMEMBER BETWEEN
THE TEAM AND THE TOWN.
>> Brown: LET ME ASK YOU BRIEFLY
ABOUT THE BEARDS WHICH BECAME
SORT OF SYMBOL OF -- I GUESS A
SORT OF ATTITUDE.
WHAT HAPPENS NOW HAVE THEY SAID?
ARE THEY SHAVING THEM OR KEEPING
THEM
>> I READ A LITTLE THING TODAY
THAT THEY MIGHT BE SHAVE AGO LOT
OF THEM FOR CHARITY SO YOU CAN
PROBABLY BUY SOME OF THOSE
BEARDS AND GO HOME AND STICK
THEM ON YOUR FACE OR SOMETHING.
I DON'T KNOW.
BUT IT'S KIND OF A GREAT SYMBOL.
THEY LOOKED LIKE A BUNCH OF
BOLSHEVIKS, DIDN'T THEY?
(LAUGHS)
>> Brown: BOSTON SPORTS WRITER
LEE MONTVILLE, THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, JEFFREY.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
ISRAELI WARPLANES STRUCK A
SYRIAN PORT.
U.S. SECURITY OFFICIALS SAID THE
TARGET WAS A SHIPMENT OF
RUSSIAN-MADE, SURFACE-TO-AIR
MISSILES.
CHINA DEMANDED AN EXPLANATION
AFTER REPORTS THAT U.S. AND
AUSTRALIAN EMBASSIES ARE BEING
USED AS HUBS FOR ELECTRONIC
SPYING.
AND A FEDERAL APPEALS COURT
UPHELD NEW YORK CITY'S "STOP-
AND-FRISK" POLICY BY BLOCKING A
LOWER COURT RULING AGAINST IT.
>> Woodruff: ON THE "NEWSHOUR"
ONLINE RIGHT NOW-- EAT, DRINK
AND BE MERRY FOR A GOOD CAUSE.
A GASTROPUB IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
SERVES BEER AND GRASS-FED
BURGERS, WITH ALL THE PROFITS
GOING TO CHARITY.
THE TWO FOUNDERS CALL IT A
PHILANTHRO-PUB AND THE IDEA IS
CATCHING ON.
READ OUR SOCIAL ENTREPRENEUR
PROFILE ON THE HOMEPAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, HOW DEBATES OVER
HEALTH CARE REFORM
AND ABORTION ARE SHAPING THE
GOVERNOR'S RACE IN THE
BATTLEGROUND STATE OF VIRGINIA.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS, AMONG
OTHERS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE "PBS
NEWSHOUR," THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.